I feel from time to time the need to say thanks to the universe even when it is just due to fortuitous things.

In this learning path I can only feel elated of the environment in which we exist, and aknowledge the shoulders of giants in which we stand. 

And I have accumulated a long list of thank you that needs to be put out there:

First of all

Thanks to the open source community and movement.

Without the ideals that you have proposed and fought for we would be in a darker age and it is not just tecnology I am talking about.

There is no adequate amount of praise for you so I wont go at lenght at it. Just, special thank you all, as you have shown the strength of your methods and beliefs trough great observable and ever evolving results.

Then there is Google, who has made available so many free and user friendly resources like apps scripts which gives you a powerful hold over the whole ecosystem in such an accessible manner that trough it I was able to break into coding and the pieces started falling together after that.

I personally was very inspired in my youth by the philosophy "don´t be evil", which to a starry eyed younger me sounded so out of place. Now I better understand the concerns of those who propsed such statement. And I can only hope to uphold a real an benefitial definition of good to aspire to, and to be consistent in its persecution. Yet I aknowledge their foresight and the power they knew they would handle. 

Then there is the cores of my full stack development learning path, Google Cloud, Ubuntu, Node, Certbot and Git. These are my tools today to understand the whole delievery process in its most essential condition. All of them offered for free by their respective carers and owners (google grants an "always free" list of elements that upstarted my learning process in a real modern cloud environment).

And the many pieces of software that I would love to learn to use as time goes by; Audacity, Blender, OBS Studio and Openshot. Which I know are all over the place, yet I feel obligated to understand the state of computing and tools beyond that of the market trends. 

For me this is the threshold into a new layer of existence where the individual grows greatly in power as the tools to help him learn and act upon the world improves along with the living infrastructure. Where ideas and ideals can me translated into abstract orders that accomplish tasks that serve value to our lives. When, if a process can be coded, we are assisted by digital "brains" that perform prescripted non arbitrary computatons in our names, by our design. 

I feel compelled to do something with this knowledge, to reimagine possibilities and test such constructs against reality. To me, this is the threshold of magic, in its infancy perhaps, but nothing less that the ability to push further away the "impossible".

And this energy and desire is greater than any other in the past. It feels wholesome and trascendant. In a way it allows much greater communication and order, which might grant the conditions to improve any existing layer of human organization. 

Thanks to all who helped me actively or passively, today or the days past. 

I clearly see the value of community in your works, and it inspires me.

Thanks to you all.

Demian Sanchez. 2021 03 16.